contents/docs/03-deployment/01-github-pages/index.md, before:

---
type: guide
category: deployment
slug: deployment/github-pages
title: 'GitHub Pages'
description: 'Toucan-based websites can be hosted for free using GitHub Pages. Follow these steps to set up your site'
order: 1
---

# GitHub Deploy

Toucan-based websites can be hosted for free using GitHub Pages. Follow these steps to set up your site.

---

## Creating a repository for your site

You can either create a repository or choose an existing repository for your site.

If you want to create a GitHub Pages site for a repository where not all of the files in the repository are related to the site, you will be able to configure a publishing source for your site. For example, you can have a dedicated branch and folder to hold your site source files, or you can use a custom GitHub Actions workflow to build and deploy your site source files.

If the account that owns the repository uses GitHub Free or GitHub Free for organizations, the repository must be public.

If you want to create a site in an existing repository, skip to the [Creating your site](/github-deploy#creating-your-site) section.

1. In the upper-right corner of any page, select `+` , then click **New repository**.
   ![image1](./assets/image1.png)

2. Use the Owner dropdown menu to select the account you want to own the repository.
   ![image2](./assets/image2.png)

3. Type a name for your repository and an optional description. If you're creating a user or organization site, your repository must be named `user.github.io` or `organization.github.io`. If your user or organization name contains uppercase letters, you must lowercase the letters. For more information, see [About GitHub Pages](https://docs.github.com/en/pages/getting-started-with-github-pages/about-github-pages#types-of-github-pages-sites).
   ![image3](./assets/image3.png)

4. For the repository visibility, choose **public**. For more information, see [About repositories](https://docs.github.com/en/repositories/creating-and-managing-repositories/about-repositories#about-repository-visibility).

5. Select **Initialize this repository with a README**.

6. Click **Create repository**.

---

## Add content to the repository

1. Clone the Repository locally to your computer, if not already done:

   ```
   git clone https://github.com/your-username/your-repository.git
   ```

2. Navigate to the local repository folder and copy the `src` folder with all the content.
   Use the generator’s serve command:

   ```
   toucan generate
   ```

   After succesfull generation all the data is generated inside the `docs` folder by Toucan.

3. Push all the content to GitHub, add and commit files:

   ```
   git add .
   git commit -m "Add generated site content"
   git push origin main
   ```

---

## Creating your site

Before you can create your site, you must have a repository for your site on GitHub. If you're not creating your site in an existing repository, see [Creating a repository for your site](/github-deploy#creating-a-repository-for-your-site).

1. On GitHub, navigate to your site's repository.

2. Under your repository name, click `Settings`. If you cannot see the `Settings` tab, select the `...` dropdown menu, then click `Settings`.

3. In the `Code and automation` section of the sidebar, click `Pages`.

4. Under Source, leave the option `Deploy from a branch`.
   ![image4](./assets/image4.png)

5. Under Branch:
   ![image5](./assets/image5.png)

   - Select the branch where you committed your files (e.g., main).
   - Choose the **/docs** folder as the source.
   - Click Save.

6. Check the published site, GitHub will provide a public URL for your site, such as:

   ```
   https://your-username.github.io/my-github-page/
   ```

---

## Managing a custom domain

You can set up or update certain DNS records and your repository settings to point the default domain for your GitHub Pages site to a custom domain.

1. On GitHub, navigate to your site's repository.

2. Under your repository name, click `Settings`. If you cannot see the `Settings` tab, select the `...` dropdown menu, then click `Settings`.

3. In the `Code and automation` section of the sidebar, click `Pages`.

4. Under `Custom domain`, type your custom domain, then click Save. If you are publishing your site from a branch, this will create a commit that adds a `CNAME` file directly to the root of your source branch. If you are publishing your site with a custom GitHub Actions workflow, no `CNAME` file is created, so you need to create one manually (containing only a line of text with your custom domain).
   ![image6](./assets/image6.png)

5. Navigate to your DNS provider and create either an `ALIAS`, `ANAME`, or `A` record. You can also create `AAAA` records for IPv6 support. If you're implementing IPv6 support, we highly recommend using an `A` record in addition to your `AAAA` record, due to slow adoption of IPv6 globally. For more information about how to create the correct record, see your DNS provider's documentation.

Commit message:

update content and fix guides order

contents/docs/03-deployment/01-github-pages/index.md, after:

---
type: guide
category: deployment
slug: deployment/github-pages
title: 'GitHub Pages'
description: 'Toucan-based websites can be hosted for free using GitHub Pages. Follow these steps to set up your site'
order: 1
---

# GitHub Deploy

Toucan-based websites can be hosted for free using GitHub Pages. Follow these steps to set up your site.

---

## Creating a repository for your site

You can either create a repository or choose an existing repository for your site.

If you want to create a GitHub Pages site for a repository where not all of the files in the repository are related to the site, you will be able to configure a publishing source for your site. For example, you can have a dedicated branch and folder to hold your site source files, or you can use a custom GitHub Actions workflow to build and deploy your site source files.

If the account that owns the repository uses GitHub Free or GitHub Free for organizations, the repository must be public.

If you want to create a site in an existing repository, skip to the [Creating your site](/github-deploy#creating-your-site) section.

1. In the upper-right corner of any page, select `+` , then click **New repository**.
   ![image1](./assets/image1.png)

2. Use the Owner dropdown menu to select the account you want to own the repository.
   ![image2](./assets/image2.png)

3. Type a name for your repository and an optional description. If you're creating a user or organization site, your repository must be named `user.github.io` or `organization.github.io`. If your user or organization name contains uppercase letters, you must lowercase the letters. For more information, see [About GitHub Pages](https://docs.github.com/en/pages/getting-started-with-github-pages/about-github-pages#types-of-github-pages-sites).
   ![image3](./assets/image3.png)

4. For the repository visibility, choose **public**. For more information, see [About repositories](https://docs.github.com/en/repositories/creating-and-managing-repositories/about-repositories#about-repository-visibility).

5. Select **Initialize this repository with a README**.

6. Click **Create repository**.

---

## Add content to the repository

1. Clone the Repository locally to your computer, if not already done:

   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/your-username/your-repository.git
   ```

2. Update base url
   When deploying to GitHub Pages, you need to update the baseUrl field in the configuration file, which is location in **src/site.yml**:

   ```yaml
   baseUrl: 'http://localhost:3000/'
   ```

   Depending on your deployment setup, update baseUrl as follows:

   - GitHub Pages (username/repo path):

     ```yaml
     baseUrl: 'https://yourusername.github.io/repository-name/'
     ```

   - Custom Domain (e.g., example.com):

     ```yaml
     baseUrl: 'https://example.com/'
     ```

   The **baseUrl** is used to generate correct links across your site. If it points to **localhost**, links may break when your site is live on GitHub Pages. **Always remember to update baseUrl before deploying.**

3. Navigate to the local repository folder and copy the **src** folder with all the content.
   Use the generator’s serve command:

   ```bash
   toucan generate
   ```

   After succesfull generation all the data is generated inside the **docs** folder by Toucan.

4. Push all the content to GitHub, add and commit files:

   ```bash
   git add .
   git commit -m "Add generated site content"
   git push origin main
   ```

---

## Creating your site

Before you can create your site, you must have a repository for your site on GitHub. If you're not creating your site in an existing repository, see [Creating a repository for your site](/github-deploy#creating-a-repository-for-your-site).

1. On GitHub, navigate to your site's repository.

2. Under your repository name, click `Settings`. If you cannot see the `Settings` tab, select the `...` dropdown menu, then click `Settings`.

3. In the `Code and automation` section of the sidebar, click `Pages`.

4. Under Source, leave the option `Deploy from a branch`.
   ![image4](./assets/image4.png)

5. Under Branch:
   ![image5](./assets/image5.png)

   - Select the branch where you committed your files (e.g., main).
   - Choose the **/docs** folder as the source.
   - Click Save.

6. Check the published site, GitHub will provide a public URL for your site, such as:

   ```
   https://your-username.github.io/my-github-page/
   ```

---

## Managing a custom domain

You can set up or update certain DNS records and your repository settings to point the default domain for your GitHub Pages site to a custom domain.

1. On GitHub, navigate to your site's repository.

2. Under your repository name, click `Settings`. If you cannot see the `Settings` tab, select the `...` dropdown menu, then click `Settings`.

3. In the `Code and automation` section of the sidebar, click `Pages`.

4. Under `Custom domain`, type your custom domain, then click Save. If you are publishing your site from a branch, this will create a commit that adds a `CNAME` file directly to the root of your source branch. If you are publishing your site with a custom GitHub Actions workflow, no `CNAME` file is created, so you need to create one manually (containing only a line of text with your custom domain).
   ![image6](./assets/image6.png)

5. Navigate to your DNS provider and create either an `ALIAS`, `ANAME`, or `A` record. You can also create `AAAA` records for IPv6 support. If you're implementing IPv6 support, we highly recommend using an `A` record in addition to your `AAAA` record, due to slow adoption of IPv6 globally. For more information about how to create the correct record, see your DNS provider's documentation.
